It's been 6 months since I bought an Apple 
Watch Series 9, and I'm going to take you   through my favorite things about this watch, 
what makes getting an Apple Watch worth it,   and who should upgrade to this version 
first. Let's talk about battery life. It's   been excellent on this watch, though I should 
clarify, it's been excellent for a smartwatch,   a device where you should plan on 
charging it about once per day. Now,   I wear my watch for sleep tracking, so I actually 
end up charging mine in the morning when I take   a shower, and then maybe again at night if I 
shower after a workout. With that schedule,   I've never once run into an issue with it running 
low on battery over the past 6 months, thanks to   its fast charging capabilities. Note: the Apple 
Watch SE models don't support fast charging. The next thing I've really liked 
about the Series 9 is Siri. Now,   I know just hearing the name likely brought 
up some feelings you have towards Siri,   which you can let me know what those are in the 
comments. But specifically, the thing I've liked   about Siri on the Series 9 is it's much faster 
at responding and getting things done for you,   like setting timers. This is due to the 
new S9 SIP that powers the Series 9,   which has a dedicated neural engine for machine 
learning tasks that are up to two times faster   than the previous generation. Plus, the S9 SIP 
also allows Siri to process a lot more requests on   the watch itself locally, which is the thing that 
I think has really helped improve its performance. The next feature I've enjoyed using that's new 
on the Series 9 is the brighter display. It can   go up to 2,000 nits, which is double 
what the previous Series 8 watch had,   making it easier to see in daylight conditions 
and especially when you have sunglasses on. So,   those are the new features of the Series 9 that 
I've really enjoyed using. Now, 6 months later,   are there features that are new to this watch that 
I found myself not utilizing all that much? Yes,   the first of which is the double feature, 
otherwise known as Pinchy Pinch. This feature   allows you to do things like answer a call, stop 
a timer, play/pause music, but I've struggled with   this feature in two areas. One, just remembering 
it's a thing you can do, which over 6 months has   been harder for me to do, in part because this 
feature just isn't as responsive as I initially   expected it to be. I find I have to do the 
gesture at least like two times to get it to work,   and it takes a second or two longer than ideal 
before it actually triggers the action. Also,   it's not universally supported on the Apple 
Watch, so an app like Pocket Casts, which I use   all of the time to control a podcast playing on my 
iPhone, double-tap won't play or pause the podcast   on that app. The other feature I haven't used all 
that much is HomePod control. You're supposed to   be able to bring the new Apple Watch over to a 
HomePod and take control of the music playing   on a HomePod, but I've just never been able to 
get this feature to actually work correctly. The   reason this is a feature at all is the Series 9 
gained an ultra-wideband chip, similar to the chip   on the iPhone, which allows you to do other things 
with this watch, like get precise directions to   your phone or AirTag's location, which I have 
used a few times and it is really useful. Now, let's look at some other parts of the 
Apple Watch experience that have stood out.   But just note, the things I'm about to talk about, 
they're not exclusive to the Apple Watch Series 9.   The first one is watchOS 10, which is the OS 
that came with this watch. Its UI makes more   use of the larger displays on current Apple Watch 
Generations, which you can see in many of Apple's   redesigned apps for the watch, and the Weather one 
in particular is a lot more useful with a way you   can just tap the dial to cycle through different 
weather information for the day. Now, the biggest   change to the overall user experience that 
watchOS 10 makes is a feature called Smart Stack.   It creates a persistent area you can go to for 
apps running important things in the background,   like a timer or music playing in the background, 
which are actually dynamically added to the Smart   Stack list, but it'll also give you information 
from certain apps that you pin in the Smart   Stack as well. You can get to it from any watch 
face by swiping up from the bottom of the watch,   which is how you used to get to Control Center, or 
by turning the Digital Crown. Apple has actually   moved Control Center to the side button. Just 
a single press from wherever you are on the   watch brings it up. And this took me the full 6 
months to get used to. WatchOS 10 also brought a   new Snoopy watch face, which I don't use all that 
often because I love my Infograph watch face so   much with all the complications that you can put 
on it. But when I want a bit of a change or just   something that kind of cheers me up, the Snoopy 
watch face is definitely good at doing that. Another thing I've used this Apple Watch for a 
lot is Fitness tracking. I love the automatic   workout detection, so when I'm on a walk, it'll 
just register that after about 10 to 12 minutes   and it goes ahead and logs it. The compass feature 
is pretty useful if you're on a hike and just want   to make sure you don't get lost. WatchOS 10 
did add new hiking views, trail information,   and typography in Maps as well. I've also utilized 
the Apple Fitness Plus integration with the watch   a lot over the past 6 months. I love how well 
the watch integrates my workouts and I can see   my progress up on the Apple TV. Another thing 
I've utilized the watch for is sleep tracking,   which I know isn't totally accurate on 
smartwatches, but I still wear mine when   I go to sleep just to give me a general idea of 
how long I'm sleeping and how good my sleep is. Now, another huge thing I use this watch for all 
the time is Media controls. You can now use the   Now Playing app to control media playing 
on your other Apple devices or the watch,   or dedicated media apps like Spotify, Apple Music,   Pocket Casts, which is a great podcast 
app. And while I typically find playing   media off my phone and then controlling it 
with my watch to be the easier experience,   you can directly play media off the watch and 
listen to it on your headphones, though I found   this works best in practice if you have AirPods 
because of their automatic switching feature. Alright, a few more things I've used this watch 
for over the past six months are first directions   with Apple Maps, where the watch will give you 
different haptic feedback patterns for when you're   supposed to turn right or left, which I really 
find useful and it makes it harder to miss a turn.   I use this watch to set laundry and cook timers 
all of the time, which thanks to the faster Siri   experience is actually a pretty good experience. 
I also use the watch to quickly respond to a text,   and yes, the tiny keyboard is surprisingly 
somewhat usable. And the last main thing I   use the watch for is simply glanceable information 
like weather conditions, temperature and range,   the sunup and sunset time, any calendar events 
I may have, and the date. But importantly, these   complications also act as shortcuts to get into 
my most used apps like Fitness and Pocket Casts. Now, let's talk downsides. And the biggest 
downside with using this and all Apple watches   is you must have an iPhone in order to use one. 
It's a bit of a bummer for those who really like   their Android phones but prefer the look or 
just features with an Apple Watch. Another   downside I've encountered over the past 6 months 
is software updates. Because I wear this watch   to bed, automatic updates never install because 
they're set to auto-install at like 2 a.m. when   the watch is on the charger. But I'd still like 
Apple to give me the choice to be able to set   when automatic updates should install. The last 
big downside I found with this watch, and this   applies to all Apple watches, is repairability. 
I'd really like to see Apple work to make the   Apple watch have a user-replaceable battery 
where you don't need to take it to a repair   shop or order a special repair kit and tools from 
Apple just to replace something like the battery. Now, let's talk recommendations. Do I recommend 
the Series 9 if you have an iPhone? Yes, it has   a ton of great features and critical ones like 
finding your phone if you don't know where it is,   easy access to Media controls, Fitness tracking, 
and more. Now do keep in mind, now that it has   been 6 months with the Series 9, that means we're 
only 6 months away from the next version coming   out this September. So for some, it's going to 
be better just to wait for the newer version,   while for others, if you need one now and 
you can find a good deal on the Series 9,   I'd say go for it. And if you're stuck 
choosing between the Series 9, Apple Watch SE,   and Apple Watch Ultra, in general, the 
reason why I went with the Series 9 over   something like the Apple Watch Ultra is I just 
really wanted that classic Apple Watch look,   and the Ultra is just a little bit bigger and more 
chunky. I don't care for the aesthetics as much,   and I needed a watch that had fast charging 
capability as well as gave you the option of   ordering it with a sapphire crystal display, 
which you cannot get with the SE. In general,   I always think the sapphire crystal is worth it 
if you're like me and you just can't stand seeing   micro scratches on your watch face. I've slammed 
this watch into so many things after 6 months,   and there's not a scratch to be found on its 
display. So those are my thoughts on the Apple   Watch Series 9. Now, if you're also looking 
at potentially getting a new iPhone and want   to see my thoughts on this year's iPhone 15 Pro 
Max, you can click here to get to that review,   or you can click here to get to all of my other 
reviews on Apple products like the HomePod Mini,   AirPods Max, and more. If you like this video 
and you found it helpful, make sure you hit   that thumbs up button below. It really helps us 
out, and don't forget to subscribe if you want to   see more of my thoughts on Apple products. For 6 
months later, I'm Josh Teder. Thanks for watching. 